---
title: alert.get
source: https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/alert/get
downloaded: 2025-11-14 10:40:04
---

# alert.get  
  
### Description

`integer/array alert.get(object parameters)`

The method allows to retrieve alerts according to the given parameters.

This method is available to users of any type. Permissions to call the method can be revoked in user role settings. See [User roles](/documentation/current/en/manual/web_interface/frontend_sections/users/user_roles) for more information.

### Parameters

`(object)` Parameters defining the desired output.

The method supports the following parameters.

alertids | ID/array | Return only alerts with the given IDs.  
---|---|---  
actionids | ID/array | Return only alerts generated by the given actions.  
eventids | ID/array | Return only alerts generated by the given events.  
groupids | ID/array | Return only alerts generated by objects from the given host groups.  
hostids | ID/array | Return only alerts generated by objects from the given hosts.  
mediatypeids | ID/array | Return only message alerts that used the given media types.  
objectids | ID/array | Return only alerts generated by the given objects  
userids | ID/array | Return only message alerts that were sent to the given users.  
eventobject | integer | Return only alerts generated by events related to objects of the given type.  
  
See event [`object`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/event/object#event) for a list of supported object types.  
  
Default: 0 - trigger.  
eventsource | integer | Return only alerts generated by events of the given type.  
  
See event [`source`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/event/object#event) for a list of supported event types.  
  
Default: 0 - trigger events.  
time_from | timestamp | Return only alerts that have been generated after the given time.  
time_till | timestamp | Return only alerts that have been generated before the given time.  
selectHosts | query | Return a [`hosts`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/host/object) property with data of hosts that triggered the action operation.  
selectMediatypes | query | Return a [`mediatypes`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/mediatype/object) property with an array of the media types that were used for the message alert.  
  
See [`mediatype.get`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/mediatype/get) for restrictions based on user type.  
selectUsers | query | Return a [`users`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/user/object) property with an array of the users that the message was addressed to.  
  
See [`user.get`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/user/get) for restrictions based on user type.  
sortfield | string/array | Sort the result by the given properties.  
  
Possible values: `alertid`, `clock`, `eventid`, `mediatypeid`, `sendto`, `status`.  
countOutput | boolean | These parameters are described in the [reference commentary](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference_commentary#common-get-method-parameters).  
editable | boolean  
excludeSearch | boolean  
filter | object  
limit | integer  
output | query  
preservekeys | boolean  
search | object  
searchByAny | boolean  
searchWildcardsEnabled | boolean  
sortorder | string/array  
startSearch | boolean  
  
### Return values

`(integer/array)` Returns either:

  * an array of objects;
  * the count of retrieved objects, if the `countOutput` parameter has been used.

### Examples

#### Retrieve alerts by action ID

Retrieve all alerts generated by action "3".

[Request](/documentation/current/en/manual/api#performing-requests):
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "method": "alert.get",
               "params": {
                   "output": "extend",
                   "actionids": "3"
               },
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

Response:
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "result": [
                   {
                       "alertid": "1",
                       "actionid": "3",
                       "eventid": "21243",
                       "userid": "1",
                       "clock": "1362128008",
                       "mediatypeid": "1",
                       "sendto": "support@company.com",
                       "subject": "PROBLEM: Zabbix agent on Linux server is unreachable for 5 minutes: ",
                       "message": "Trigger: Zabbix agent on Linux server is unreachable for 5 minutes: \nTrigger status: PROBLEM\nTrigger severity: Not classified",
                       "status": "0",
                       "retries": "3",
                       "error": "",
                       "esc_step": "1",
                       "alerttype": "0",
                       "p_eventid": "0",
                       "acknowledgeid": "0"
                   }
               ],
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

### See also

  * [Host](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/host/object#host)
  * [Media type](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/mediatype/object#media-type)
  * [User](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/user/object#user)

### Source

CAlert::get() in _ui/include/classes/api/services/CAlert.php_.