---
title: hostgroup.get
source: https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/hostgroup/get
downloaded: 2025-11-14 10:42:07
---

# hostgroup.get

### Description

`integer/array hostgroup.get(object parameters)`

The method allows to retrieve host groups according to the given parameters.

This method is available to users of any type. Permissions to call the method can be revoked in user role settings. See [User roles](/documentation/current/en/manual/web_interface/frontend_sections/users/user_roles) for more information.

### Parameters

`(object)` Parameters defining the desired output.

The method supports the following parameters.

graphids | ID/array | Return only host groups that contain hosts with the given graphs.  
---|---|---  
groupids | ID/array | Return only host groups with the given host group IDs.  
hostids | ID/array | Return only host groups that contain the given hosts.  
maintenanceids | ID/array | Return only host groups that are affected by the given maintenances.  
triggerids | ID/array | Return only host groups that contain hosts with the given triggers.  
with_graphs | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts with graphs.  
with_graph_prototypes | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts with graph prototypes.  
with_hosts | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts.  
with_httptests | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts with web checks.  
  
Overrides the `with_monitored_httptests` parameter.  
with_items | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts with items.  
  
Overrides the `with_monitored_items` and `with_simple_graph_items` parameters.  
with_item_prototypes | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts with item prototypes.  
  
Overrides the `with_simple_graph_item_prototypes` parameter.  
with_simple_graph_item_prototypes | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts with item prototypes, which are enabled for creation and have numeric type of information.  
with_monitored_httptests | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts with enabled web checks.  
with_monitored_hosts | flag | Return only host groups that contain monitored hosts.  
with_monitored_items | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts with enabled items.  
  
Overrides the `with_simple_graph_items` parameter.  
with_monitored_triggers | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts with enabled triggers. All of the items used in the trigger must also be enabled.  
with_simple_graph_items | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts with numeric items.  
with_triggers | flag | Return only host groups that contain hosts with triggers.  
  
Overrides the `with_monitored_triggers` parameter.  
selectDiscoveryRules | query | Return a [`discoveryRules`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/discoveryrule/object) property with the LLD rules that discovered the host group.  
selectDiscoveryData | query | Return a `discoveryData` property with the host group discovery objects.  
  
Each host group discovery object is a host group prototype linked to the discovered host group and has the following properties:  
`parent_group_prototypeid` \- `(ID)` ID of the host group prototype from which the host group was discovered;  
`name` \- `(string)` name of the host group prototype;  
`ts_delete` \- `(timestamp)` time when the host group that is no longer discovered will be deleted;  
`status` \- `(int)` host group discovery status:  
0 - _(default)_ host group is discovered,  
1 - host group is not discovered anymore.  
selectHostPrototypes | query | Return a [`hostPrototypes`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/hostprototypes/object) property with host prototypes that discovered this host group.  
selectHosts | query | Return a [`hosts`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/host/object) property with the hosts that belong to the host group.  
  
Supports `count`.  
limitSelects | integer | Limits the number of records returned by subselects.  
  
Applies to the following subselects:  
`selectHosts` \- results will be sorted by `host`.  
sortfield | string/array | Sort the result by the given properties.  
  
Possible values: `groupid`, `name`.  
countOutput | boolean | These parameters are described in the [reference commentary](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference_commentary#common-get-method-parameters).  
editable | boolean  
excludeSearch | boolean  
filter | object  
limit | integer  
output | query  
preservekeys | boolean  
search | object  
searchByAny | boolean  
searchWildcardsEnabled | boolean  
sortorder | string/array  
startSearch | boolean  
selectGroupDiscoveries | query | Return a `groupDiscoveries` property with the host group discovery objects.  
  
Each host group discovery object is a host group prototype linked to the discovered host group.  
  
This query is **deprecated** , please use `selectDiscoveryData` instead.  
  
### Return values

`(integer/array)` Returns either:

  * an array of objects;
  * the count of retrieved objects, if the `countOutput` parameter has been used.

### Examples

#### Retrieving data by name

Retrieve all data about two host groups named "Zabbix servers" and "Linux servers".

[Request](/documentation/current/en/manual/api#performing-requests):
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "method": "hostgroup.get",
               "params": {
                   "output": "extend",
                   "filter": {
                       "name": [
                           "Zabbix servers",
                           "Linux servers"
                       ]
                   }
               },
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

Response:
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "result": [
                   {
                       "groupid": "2",
                       "name": "Linux servers",
                       "internal": "0"
                   },
                   {
                       "groupid": "4",
                       "name": "Zabbix servers",
                       "internal": "0"
                   }
               ],
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

### See also

  * [Host](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/host/object#host)

### Source

CHostGroup::get() in _ui/include/classes/api/services/CHostGroup.php_.