---
title: mfa.get
source: https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/mfa/get
downloaded: 2025-11-14 10:43:31
---

# mfa.get

### Description

`integer/array mfa.get(object parameters)`

The method allows to retrieve MFA methods according to the given parameters.

This method is only available to _Super admin_ user type. Permissions to call the method can be revoked in user role settings. See [User roles](/documentation/current/en/manual/web_interface/frontend_sections/users/user_roles) for more information.

### Parameters

`(object)` Parameters defining the desired output.

The method supports the following parameters.

mfaids | ID/array | Return only MFA methods with the given IDs.  
---|---|---  
selectUsrgrps | query | Return a `usrgrps` property with [user groups](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/usergroup/object) associated with MFA methods.  
  
Supports `count`.  
filter | object | Return only those results that exactly match the given filter.  
  
Accepts an object, where the keys are property names, and the values are either a single value or an array of values to match against.  
  
Supports properties:  
`mfaid` \- ID of the MFA method;  
`type` \- Type of the MFA method.  
sortfield | string/array | Sort the result by the given properties.  
  
Possible values: `name`.  
search | object | Return results that match the given pattern (case-insensitive).  
  
Accepts an object, where the keys are property names, and the values are strings to search for. If no additional options are given, this will perform a `LIKE "%…%"` search.  
  
Supported properties: `name`.  
countOutput | boolean | These parameters are described in the [reference commentary](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference_commentary#common-get-method-parameters).  
excludeSearch | boolean  
limit | integer  
output | query  
preservekeys | boolean  
searchByAny | boolean  
searchWildcardsEnabled | boolean  
sortorder | string/array  
startSearch | boolean  
  
### Return values

`(integer/array)` Returns either:

  * an array of objects;
  * the count of retrieved objects, if the `countOutput` parameter has been used.

### Examples

#### Finding MFA methods by name

Retrieve all MFA methods with "Zabbix" in their name.

[Request](/documentation/current/en/manual/api#performing-requests):
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "method": "mfa.get",
               "params": {
                   "output": "extend",
                   "search": {
                       "name": "Zabbix"
                   }
               },
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

Response:
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "result": [
                   {
                       "mfaid": "1",
                       "type": "1",
                       "name": "Zabbix TOTP 1",
                       "hash_function": "1",
                       "code_length": "6",
                       "api_hostname": "",
                       "clientid": ""
                   },
                   {
                       "mfaid": "2",
                       "type": "1",
                       "name": "Zabbix TOTP 2",
                       "hash_function": "3",
                       "code_length": "8",
                       "api_hostname": "",
                       "clientid": ""
                   }
               ],
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

### Source

CMfa::get() in _ui/include/classes/api/services/CMfa.php_.