---
title: templategroup.get
source: https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/templategroup/get
downloaded: 2025-11-14 10:45:00
---

# templategroup.get

### Description

`integer/array templategroup.get(object parameters)`

The method allows to retrieve template groups according to the given parameters.

This method is available to users of any type. Permissions to call the method can be revoked in user role settings. See [User roles](/documentation/current/en/manual/web_interface/frontend_sections/users/user_roles) for more information.

### Parameters

`(object)` Parameters defining the desired output.

The method supports the following parameters.

graphids | ID/array | Return only template groups that contain templates with the given graphs.  
---|---|---  
groupids | ID/array | Return only template groups with the given template group IDs.  
templateids | ID/array | Return only template groups that contain the given templates.  
triggerids | ID/array | Return only template groups that contain templates with the given triggers.  
with_graphs | flag | Return only template groups that contain templates with graphs.  
with_graph_prototypes | flag | Return only template groups that contain templates with graph prototypes.  
with_httptests | flag | Return only template groups that contain templates with web checks.  
with_items | flag | Return only template groups that contain templates with items.  
  
Overrides the `with_simple_graph_items` parameters.  
with_item_prototypes | flag | Return only template groups that contain templates with item prototypes.  
  
Overrides the `with_simple_graph_item_prototypes` parameter.  
with_simple_graph_item_prototypes | flag | Return only template groups that contain templates with item prototypes, which are enabled for creation and have numeric type of information.  
with_simple_graph_items | flag | Return only template groups that contain templates with numeric items.  
with_templates | flag | Return only template groups that contain templates.  
with_triggers | flag | Return only template groups that contain templates with triggers.  
selectTemplates | query | Return a [`templates`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/template/object) property with the templates that belong to the template group.  
  
Supports `count`.  
limitSelects | integer | Limits the number of records returned by subselects.  
  
Applies to the following subselects:  
`selectTemplates` \- results will be sorted by `template`.  
sortfield | string/array | Sort the result by the given properties.  
  
Possible values: `groupid`, `name`.  
countOutput | boolean | These parameters are described in the [reference commentary](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference_commentary#common-get-method-parameters).  
editable | boolean  
excludeSearch | boolean  
filter | object  
limit | integer  
output | query  
preservekeys | boolean  
search | object  
searchByAny | boolean  
searchWildcardsEnabled | boolean  
sortorder | string/array  
startSearch | boolean  
  
### Return values

`(integer/array)` Returns either:

  * an array of objects;
  * the count of retrieved objects, if the `countOutput` parameter has been used.

### Examples

#### Retrieving data by name

Retrieve all data about two template groups named "Templates/Databases" and "Templates/Modules".

[Request](/documentation/current/en/manual/api#performing-requests):
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "method": "templategroup.get",
               "params": {
                   "output": "extend",
                   "filter": {
                       "name": [
                           "Templates/Databases",
                           "Templates/Modules"
                       ]
                   }
               },
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

Response:
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "result": [
                   {
                       "groupid": "13",
                       "name": "Templates/Databases",
                       "uuid": "748ad4d098d447d492bb935c907f652f"
                   },
                   {
                       "groupid": "8",
                       "name": "Templates/Modules",
                       "uuid": "57b7ae836ca64446ba2c296389c009b7"
                   }
               ],
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

### See also

  * [Template](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/template/object#template)

### Source

CTemplateGroup::get() in _ui/include/classes/api/services/CTemplateGroup.php_.