---
title: token.get
source: https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/token/get
downloaded: 2025-11-14 10:45:11
---

# token.get

### Description

`integer/array token.get(object parameters)`

The method allows to retrieve tokens according to the given parameters.

Only _Super admin_ user type is allowed to view tokens for other users.

### Parameters

`(object)` Parameters defining the desired output.

The method supports the following parameters.

tokenids | ID/array | Return only tokens with the given IDs.  
---|---|---  
userids | ID/array | Return only tokens created for the given users.  
token | string | Return only tokens created for the given _Auth token_.  
valid_at | timestamp | Return only tokens, which are valid (not expired) at the given date and time.  
expired_at | timestamp | Return only tokens, which are expired (not valid) at the given date and time.  
sortfield | string/array | Sort the result by the given properties.  
  
Possible values: `tokenid`, `name`, `lastaccess`, `status`, `expires_at`, `created_at`.  
countOutput | boolean | These parameters are described in the [reference commentary](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference_commentary#common-get-method-parameters).  
excludeSearch | boolean  
filter | object  
limit | integer  
output | query  
preservekeys | boolean  
search | object  
searchByAny | boolean  
searchWildcardsEnabled | boolean  
sortorder | string/array  
startSearch | boolean  
  
### Return values

`(integer/array)` Returns either:

  * an array of objects;
  * the count of retrieved objects, if the `countOutput` parameter has been used.

### Examples

#### Retrieve a token

Retrieve all data for the token with ID "2".

[Request](/documentation/current/en/manual/api#performing-requests):
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "method": "token.get",
               "params": {
                   "output": "extend",
                   "tokenids": "2"
               },
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

Response:
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "result": [
                   {
                       "tokenid": "1",
                       "name": "The Token",
                       "description": "",
                       "userid": "1",
                       "lastaccess": "0",
                       "status": "0",
                       "expires_at": "1609406220",
                       "created_at": "1611239454",
                       "creator_userid": "1"
                   }
               ],
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

### Source

CToken::get() in _ui/include/classes/api/services/CToken.php_.