---
title: trigger.get
source: https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/trigger/get
downloaded: 2025-11-14 10:45:20
---

# trigger.get

### Description

`integer/array trigger.get(object parameters)`

The method allows to retrieve triggers according to the given parameters.

This method is available to users of any type. Permissions to call the method can be revoked in user role settings. See [User roles](/documentation/current/en/manual/web_interface/frontend_sections/users/user_roles) for more information.

### Parameters

`(object)` Parameters defining the desired output.

The method supports the following parameters.

triggerids | ID/array | Return only triggers with the given IDs.  
---|---|---  
groupids | ID/array | Return only triggers that belong to hosts or templates from the given host groups or template groups.  
templateids | ID/array | Return only triggers that belong to the given templates.  
hostids | ID/array | Return only triggers that belong to the given hosts.  
itemids | ID/array | Return only triggers that contain the given items.  
functions | string/array | Return only triggers that use the given functions.  
  
Refer to the [supported function](/documentation/current/en/manual/appendix/functions) page for a list of supported functions.  
group | string | Return only triggers that belong to hosts or templates from the host group or template group with the given name.  
host | string | Return only triggers that belong to host with the given technical name.  
inherited | boolean | If set to `true` return only triggers inherited from a template.  
templated | boolean | If set to `true` return only triggers that belong to templates.  
dependent | boolean | If set to `true` return only triggers that have dependencies. If set to `false` return only triggers that do not have dependencies.  
monitored | flag | Return only enabled triggers that belong to monitored hosts and contain only enabled items.  
active | flag | Return only enabled triggers that belong to monitored hosts.  
maintenance | boolean | If set to `true` return only enabled triggers that belong to hosts in maintenance.  
withUnacknowledgedEvents | flag | Return only triggers that have unacknowledged events.  
withAcknowledgedEvents | flag | Return only triggers with all events acknowledged.  
withLastEventUnacknowledged | flag | Return only triggers with the last event unacknowledged.  
skipDependent | flag | Skip triggers in a problem state that are dependent on other triggers. Note that the other triggers are ignored if disabled, have disabled items or disabled item hosts.  
lastChangeSince | timestamp | Return only triggers that have changed their state after the given time.  
lastChangeTill | timestamp | Return only triggers that have changed their state before the given time.  
only_true | flag | Return only triggers that have recently been in a problem state.  
min_severity | integer | Return only triggers with severity greater or equal than the given severity.  
evaltype | integer | Tag [evaluation method](/documentation/current/en/manual/web_interface/frontend_sections/data_collection/hosts/triggers#using-filter).  
  
Possible values:  
0 - _(default)_ And/Or;  
2 - Or.  
tags | array | Return only triggers with the given tags.  
Format: `[{"tag": "<tag>", "value": "<value>", "operator": "<operator>"}, ...]`.  
An empty array returns all triggers.  
  
Possible [operator](/documentation/current/en/manual/web_interface/frontend_sections/data_collection/hosts/triggers#using-filter) values:  
0 - _(default)_ Contains;  
1 - Equals;  
2 - Does not contain;  
3 - Does not equal;  
4 - Exists;  
5 - Does not exist.  
expandComment | flag | Expand macros in the trigger description.  
expandDescription | flag | Expand macros in the name of the trigger.  
expandExpression | flag | Expand functions and macros in the trigger expression.  
selectHostGroups | query | Return the host groups that the trigger belongs to in the [`hostgroups`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/hostgroup/object) property.  
selectHosts | query | Return the hosts that the trigger belongs to in the [`hosts`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/host/object) property.  
selectItems | query | Return items contained by the trigger in the [`items`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/item/object) property.  
selectFunctions | query | Return functions used in the trigger in the `functions` property.  
  
The function objects represent the functions used in the trigger expression and has the following properties:  
`functionid` \- `(ID)` ID of the function;  
`itemid` \- `(ID)` ID of the item used in the function;  
`function` \- `(string)` name of the function;  
`parameter` \- `(string)` parameter passed to the function. Query parameter is replaced by `$` symbol in returned string.  
selectDependencies | query | Return triggers that the trigger depends on in the `dependencies` property.  
selectDiscoveryData | query | Return a `discoveryData` property with the trigger discovery object data. The trigger discovery object links a discovered trigger to a trigger prototype from which it was discovered.  
  
It has the following properties:  
`parent_triggerid` \- `(ID)` ID of the trigger prototype from which the trigger has been created;  
`status` \- `(int)` trigger discovery status:  
0 - _(default)_ trigger is discovered,  
1 - trigger is not discovered anymore;  
`ts_delete` \- `(timestamp)` time when a trigger that is no longer discovered will be deleted;  
`ts_disable` \- `(timestamp)` time when a trigger that is no longer discovered will be disabled;  
`disable_source` \- `(int)` indicator of whether trigger was disabled by an LLD rule or manually:  
0 - _(default)_ disabled automatically,  
1 - disabled by an LLD rule.  
selectDiscoveryRule | query | Return the [low-level discovery rule](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/discoveryrule/object#discovery-rule) that created the trigger in the `discoveryRule` property.  
selectLastEvent | query | Return the last significant trigger event in the [`lastEvent`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/event/object) property.  
selectTags | query | Return the trigger tags in [`tags`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/trigger/object#Trigger-tag) property.  
selectTemplateGroups | query | Return the template groups that the trigger belongs to in the [`templategroups`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/templategroup/object) property.  
filter | object | Return only those results that exactly match the given filter.  
  
Accepts an object, where the keys are property names, and the values are either a single value or an array of values to match against.  
  
Does not support properties of `text` [data type](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference_commentary#data-types).  
  
Supports additional properties:  
`host` \- technical name of the host that the trigger belongs to;  
`hostid` \- ID of the host that the trigger belongs to.  
limitSelects | integer | Limits the number of records returned by subselects.  
  
Applies to the following subselects:  
`selectHosts` \- results will be sorted by `host`.  
sortfield | string/array | [Sort](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference_commentary#common-get-method-parameters) the result by the given properties.  
  
Possible values: `triggerid`, `description`, `status`, `priority`, `lastchange`, `hostname`.  
countOutput | boolean | These parameters are described in the [reference commentary](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference_commentary#common-get-method-parameters).  
editable | boolean  
excludeSearch | boolean  
limit | integer  
output | query  
preservekeys | boolean  
search | object  
searchByAny | boolean  
searchWildcardsEnabled | boolean  
sortorder | string/array  
startSearch | boolean  
selectTriggerDiscovery | query | Return the trigger discovery object in the `triggerDiscovery` property. The trigger discovery objects link the trigger to a trigger prototype from which it was created.  
  
This query is **deprecated** , please use `selectDiscoveryData` instead.  
  
### Return values

`(integer/array)` Returns either:

  * an array of objects;
  * the count of retrieved objects, if the `countOutput` parameter has been used.

### Examples

#### Retrieving data by trigger ID

Retrieve all data and the functions used in trigger "14062".

[Request](/documentation/current/en/manual/api#performing-requests):
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "method": "trigger.get",
               "params": {
                   "triggerids": "14062",
                   "output": "extend",
                   "selectFunctions": "extend"
               },
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

Response:
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "result": [
                   {
                       "triggerid": "14062",
                       "expression": "{13513}<10m",
                       "description": "{HOST.NAME} has been restarted (uptime < 10m)",
                       "url": "",
                       "status": "0",
                       "value": "0",
                       "priority": "2",
                       "lastchange": "0",
                       "comments": "The host uptime is less than 10 minutes",
                       "error": "",
                       "templateid": "10016",
                       "type": "0",
                       "state": "0",
                       "flags": "0",
                       "recovery_mode": "0",
                       "recovery_expression": "",
                       "correlation_mode": "0",
                       "correlation_tag": "",
                       "manual_close": "0",
                       "opdata": "",
                       "event_name": "",
                       "uuid": "",
                       "url_name": "",
                       "functions": [
                           {
                               "functionid": "13513",
                               "itemid": "24350",
                               "parameter": "$",
                               "function": "last"
                           }
                       ]
                   }
               ],
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

#### Retrieving triggers in problem state

Retrieve the ID, name and severity of all triggers in problem state and sort them by severity in descending order.

[Request](/documentation/current/en/manual/api#performing-requests):
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "method": "trigger.get",
               "params": {
                   "output": [
                       "triggerid",
                       "description",
                       "priority"
                   ],
                   "filter": {
                       "value": 1
                   },
                   "sortfield": "priority",
                   "sortorder": "DESC"
               },
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

Response:
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "result": [
                   {
                       "triggerid": "13907",
                       "description": "Zabbix self-monitoring processes < 100% busy",
                       "priority": "4"
                   },
                   {
                       "triggerid": "13824",
                       "description": "Zabbix discoverer processes more than 75% busy",
                       "priority": "3"
                   }
               ],
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

#### Retrieving a specific trigger with tags

Retrieve a specific trigger with tags.

[Request](/documentation/current/en/manual/api#performing-requests):
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "method": "trigger.get",
               "params": {
                   "output": [
                       "triggerid",
                       "description"
                   ],
                   "selectTags": "extend",
                   "triggerids": [
                       "17578"
                   ]
               },
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

Response:
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "result": [
                   {
                       "triggerid": "17370",
                       "description": "Service status",
                       "tags": [
                           {
                               "tag": "service",
                               "value": "{{ITEM.VALUE}.regsub(\"Service (.*) has stopped\", \"\\1\")}"
                           },
                           {
                               "tag": "error",
                               "value": ""
                           }
                       ]
                   }
               ],
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

### See also

  * [Discovery rule](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/discoveryrule/object#discovery-rule)
  * [Item](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/item/object#item)
  * [Host](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/host/object#host)
  * [Host group](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/hostgroup/object#host-group)
  * [Template group](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/templategroup/object#template-group)

### Source

CTrigger::get() in _ui/include/classes/api/services/CTrigger.php_.