---
title: triggerprototype.get
source: https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/triggerprototype/get
downloaded: 2025-11-14 10:45:26
---

# triggerprototype.get

### Description

`integer/array triggerprototype.get(object parameters)`

The method allows to retrieve trigger prototypes according to the given parameters.

This method is available to users of any type. Permissions to call the method can be revoked in user role settings. See [User roles](/documentation/current/en/manual/web_interface/frontend_sections/users/user_roles) for more information.

### Parameters

`(object)` Parameters defining the desired output.

The method supports the following parameters.

active | flag | Return only enabled trigger prototypes that belong to monitored hosts.  
---|---|---  
discoveryids | ID/array | Return only trigger prototypes that belong to the given LLD rules.  
functions | string/array | Return only triggers that use the given functions.  
  
Refer to the [Supported functions](/documentation/current/en/manual/appendix/functions) page for a list of supported functions.  
group | string | Return only trigger prototypes that belong to hosts or templates from the host groups or template groups with the given name.  
groupids | ID/array | Return only trigger prototypes that belong to hosts or templates from the given host groups or template groups.  
host | string | Return only trigger prototypes that belong to hosts with the given name.  
hostids | ID/array | Return only trigger prototypes that belong to the given hosts.  
inherited | boolean | If set to `true` return only trigger prototypes inherited from a template.  
maintenance | boolean | If set to `true` return only enabled trigger prototypes that belong to hosts in maintenance.  
min_severity | integer | Return only trigger prototypes with severity greater or equal than the given severity.  
monitored | flag | Return only enabled trigger prototypes that belong to monitored hosts and contain only enabled items.  
templated | boolean | If set to `true` return only trigger prototypes that belong to templates.  
templateids | ID/array | Return only trigger prototypes that belong to the given templates.  
triggerids | ID/array | Return only trigger prototypes with the given IDs.  
expandExpression | flag | Expand functions and macros in the trigger expression.  
selectDependencies | query | Return trigger prototypes and triggers that the trigger prototype depends on in the `dependencies` property.  
selectDiscoveryData | query | Return a `discoveryData` property with the trigger prototype discovery object data. The trigger prototype discovery object links a discovered trigger prototype to a trigger prototype from which it was discovered.  
  
It has the following properties:  
`parent_triggerid` \- `(ID)` ID of the trigger prototype from which the trigger prototype has been created;  
`status` \- `(int)` trigger prototype discovery status:  
0 - _(default)_ trigger prototype is discovered,  
1 - trigger prototype is not discovered anymore;  
`ts_delete` \- `(timestamp)` time when a trigger prototype that is no longer discovered will be deleted;  
`ts_disable` \- `(timestamp)` time when a trigger prototype that is no longer discovered will be disabled;  
`disable_source` \- `(int)` indicator of whether trigger prototype was disabled by an LLD rule or manually:  
0 - _(default)_ disabled automatically,  
1 - disabled by an LLD rule.  
selectDiscoveryRule | query | Return the [LLD rule](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/discoveryrule/object) that the trigger prototype belongs to in the `discoveryRule` property.  
selectDiscoveryRulePrototype | query | Return a [`discoveryRulePrototype`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/discoveryruleprototype/object) property with the parent LLD rule prototype that the trigger prototype belongs to.  
selectFunctions | query | Return functions used in the trigger prototype in the `functions` property.  
  
The function objects represent the functions used in the trigger expression and has the following properties:  
`functionid` \- `(ID)` ID of the function;  
`itemid` \- `(ID)` ID of the item used in the function;  
`function` \- `(string)` name of the function;  
`parameter` \- `(string)` parameter passed to the function. Query parameter is replaced by `$` symbol in returned string.  
selectHostGroups | query | Return the host groups that the trigger prototype belongs to in the [`hostgroups`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/hostgroup/object) property.  
selectHosts | query | Return the hosts that the trigger prototype belongs to in the [`hosts`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/host/object) property.  
selectItems | query | Return items and item prototypes used the trigger prototype in the [`items`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/item/object) property.  
selectTags | query | Return the trigger prototype tags in [`tags`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/triggerprototype/object#Trigger-prototype-tag) property.  
selectTemplateGroups | query | Return the template groups that the trigger prototype belongs to in the [`templategroups`](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/templategroup/object) property.  
filter | object | Return only those results that exactly match the given filter.  
  
Accepts an object, where the keys are property names, and the values are either a single value or an array of values to match against.  
  
Does not support properties of `text` [data type](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference_commentary#data-types).  
  
Supports additional properties:  
`host` \- technical name of the host that the trigger prototype belongs to;  
`hostid` \- ID of the host that the trigger prototype belongs to.  
limitSelects | integer | Limits the number of records returned by subselects.  
  
Applies to the following subselects:  
`selectHosts` \- results will be sorted by `host`.  
sortfield | string/array | Sort the result by the given properties.  
  
Possible values: `triggerid`, `description`, `status`, `priority`, `discovered`.  
countOutput | boolean | These parameters are described in the [reference commentary](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference_commentary#common-get-method-parameters).  
editable | boolean  
excludeSearch | boolean  
limit | integer  
output | query  
preservekeys | boolean  
search | object  
searchByAny | boolean  
searchWildcardsEnabled | boolean  
sortorder | string/array  
startSearch | boolean  
  
### Return values

`(integer/array)` Returns either:

  * an array of objects;
  * the count of retrieved objects, if the `countOutput` parameter has been used.

### Examples

#### Retrieve trigger prototypes from an LLD rule

Retrieve all trigger prototypes and their functions from an LLD rule.

[Request](/documentation/current/en/manual/api#performing-requests):
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "method": "triggerprototype.get",
               "params": {
                   "output": "extend",
                   "selectFunctions": "extend",
                   "discoveryids": "22450"
               },
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

Response:
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "result": [
                   {
                       "triggerid": "13272",
                       "expression": "{12598}<20",
                       "description": "Free inodes is less than 20% on volume {#FSNAME}",
                       "url": "",
                       "status": "0",
                       "value": "0",
                       "priority": "2",
                       "lastchange": "0",
                       "comments": "",
                       "error": "",
                       "templateid": "0",
                       "type": "0",
                       "state": "0",
                       "flags": "2",
                       "recovery_mode": "0",
                       "recovery_expression": "",
                       "correlation_mode": "0",
                       "correlation_tag": "",
                       "manual_close": "0",
                       "opdata": "",
                       "discover": "0",
                       "event_name": "",
                       "uuid": "6ce467d05e8745409a177799bed34bb3",
                       "url_name": "",
                       "functions": [
                           {
                               "functionid": "12598",
                               "itemid": "22454",
                               "parameter": "$",
                               "function": "last"
                           }
                       ]
                   },
                   {
                       "triggerid": "13266",
                       "expression": "{13500}<20",
                       "description": "Free disk space is less than 20% on volume {#FSNAME}",
                       "url": "",
                       "status": "0",
                       "value": "0",
                       "priority": "2",
                       "lastchange": "0",
                       "comments": "",
                       "error": "",
                       "templateid": "0",
                       "type": "0",
                       "state": "0",
                       "flags": "2",
                       "recovery_mode": "0",
                       "recovery_expression": "",
                       "correlation_mode": "0",
                       "correlation_tag": "",
                       "manual_close": "0",
                       "opdata": "",
                       "discover": "0",
                       "event_name": "",
                       "uuid": "74a1fc62bfe24b7eabe4e244c70dc384",
                       "url_name": "",
                       "functions": [
                           {
                               "functionid": "13500",
                               "itemid": "22686",
                               "parameter": "$",
                               "function": "last"
                           }
                       ]
                   }
               ],
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

#### Retrieving a specific trigger prototype with tags

[Request](/documentation/current/en/manual/api#performing-requests):
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "method": "triggerprototype.get",
               "params": {
                   "output": [
                       "triggerid",
                       "description"
                   ],
                   "selectTags": "extend",
                   "triggerids": [
                       "17373"
                   ]
               },
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

Response:
    
    
    {
               "jsonrpc": "2.0",
               "result": [
                   {
                       "triggerid": "17373",
                       "description": "Free disk space is less than 20% on volume {#FSNAME}",
                       "tags": [
                           {
                               "tag": "volume",
                               "value": "{#FSNAME}"
                           },
                           {
                               "tag": "type",
                               "value": "{#FSTYPE}"
                           }
                       ]
                   }
               ],
               "id": 1
           }

Copy

✔ Copied

### See also

  * [Discovery rule](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/discoveryrule/object#discovery-rule)
  * [Item](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/item/object#item)
  * [Host](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/host/object#host)
  * [Host group](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/hostgroup/object#host-group)
  * [Template group](/documentation/current/en/manual/api/reference/templategroup/object#template-group)

### Source

CTriggerPrototype::get() in _ui/include/classes/api/services/CTriggerPrototype.php_.